**Prediction accuracy increased with cellular neighbourhood size**
Indicated that performance was best containing 7 to 65 cells.

**Negligible performance difference between GAT- and FFW model**
FFW model predicted without neighbourhood context. Even though it was without neighbourhood context, the cut-outs of the single cells also had some parts of neighbouring cells in the image, which gave a large neighbourhood context.

**Only large difference in performance on CosMx data**
10x20 $\micro m$ was the best cut-out size for high-plex, while smaller cut-outs was best for low abundance markers.

**Visual features is essential**
Tried modelling and predicting while dropping some markers, which led to sharp drop in performance.

**Accurate bulk counts is important**
Image2Count achieved comparable performance to other models. Dropout events significantly affected performance, and also the ability to analyse the performance downstream. Actual model performance might actually be better compared to evaluating on the raw data.

**Variance in GeoMx set**
Predicted bulk counts and actual bulk counts in ROIs was significantly lower for the GeoMx set. (0.20 vs 0.90)

GeoMx had higher amount of patients, and smaller amount of cut-outs per patient. May require more data for model training. GeoMx segmentation was not perfect.

**Overfitting using large cut-outs in GeoMx data**
Lead to training on too few cells (don't understand how?) compared to other sets, which contained more cells to train on for the feature backbone.

**Predicting single cell expression worked well, but expression of cell cut-outs also worked well**

**Merging model predictions from cross-validation to build a consensus increased average single cell prediction accuracy**

**Oversampling low abundance phenotypes improved performance.**