There is a problem

Insignificant spearman correlations get filtered out, and it may be due to insufficient data to draw correlations from. After inspecting the data, there is mostly 2 ROIs per patient.

Having a high kFold might lead to insufficient data to draw statistics from. I will retrain to see how this goes.

In visualize_per_gene:
It Forms the calculations, and saves to csv corr_area_spearman_filter genes where p-value is below 0.05, so for those csv that contain these values, those will succeed the code run. Otherwise, it will be empty, and the code fails.

The p_pval is calculated in line 467, it calls per_gene_corr from utils, which in turn gets a return name pcc from running corr, which is an alias for scipy.stats method depending on which method is used. If spearman is assigned, in reality corr is a function called spearmanr.

The pvalue has a base null hypothesis that there is no correlation, so if it can be rejected, then there is a correlation, meaning if pvalue is less than a confidence threshold.

So for each fold performance won't work, but probably merged

**why no processed test?**
When training the model, two datasets are formed, train and test
The paths are formed internally, and created if they dont exist
The created paths are overwritten through cfolds
The pt files are created in method process_one_step, which is called in method process
This process is called by torch geometric loader, which is only used during graph train.
The dataset creates paths using raw_subset_dir name, not experiment name

****
<u>Points for meeting</u>
* Report headers
* Template?
* Specifics, like size margins, type
* LaTeX?
General headers
* Abstract
* Preface
* Table of contents
* Introduction
* Methodology
* Results
* Discussion and conclusion
* References
* Appendices

How much is okay to use as background for my report based on the current manuscript? Like, past models

* The manuscript has headers:
	* Introduction
	* Results
	* Discussion
	* Methodology
	* Data availability
	* code availability
	* Acknowledgements
	* Author contributions
	* competing interests
	* References

* Unseg data, and for visualizing figures like in the manuscript. The overlayed expression on images, is this going to be useful? As we have no ground truth. I guess i will be looking at the GeoMX example in the manuscript of what is possible.

****
Had my meeting. For the report, i will be provided a template. I'm also allowed to write about biological significance, however this will have to be approved by our data providers first.

I also talked with Markus, the model WAS learning, deepcell works, but its not statistically significant enough, it lies around the 0.1 mark in p-value. Some proposed things to test:
* Check masks if it coincides with how deepcell wants theirs
* Check the histogram solution if it works like deepcell originally does
* Train only with linear layer

For the metrics, he suggests skipping visualize-expression for now, as its only used to form the umap and stuff. He also suggests to use visualize on image to check if the predictions for transcripts coincide with what the stain is supposed to stain for.

****
Script for saving processed crop outs
```
        import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
        path = os.path.join(os.getcwd(),"figures","preprocess_figures")
        if run in range(20,400,10):
            try:
                plt.subplot(2,1,1)
                plt.imshow(raw_patch[1,:,:])
                plt.subplot(2,1,2)
                plt.imshow(self_mask[:,:])
                plt.tight_layout()
                save_path = os.path.join(path,str(run)+".png")
                temp=1
                while os.path.exists(save_path):
                    save_path = os.path.join(path,str(run+temp)+".png")
                    temp+=1
                plt.savefig(save_path)
                plt.close()
            except Exception:
                print(np.unique(raw_patch[1,:,:]))

```