Meeting today, scary

Had my meeting today, what to do now:
* Debugging metrics
	* do_clustering_metrics
	* pathway_metrics
* Fix Deepcell
* Start training to generate all the metrics and test various setups

My workflow is going to be the following:
* Do these in background:
	* Test cell size dependency for KRONOS
	* Train KRONOS in various combinations and find best combos
* While that is working, debug the metrics code
* Move on to fixing Deepcell

<u>Metrics</u>
`_create_metrics` gets called.
It takes:
```
path=args['h5ad_dir']='out'
target_df=args['vis_label_data']=label.csv
name=args['vis_name_pattern']='h5ad'
num_subgraphs_per_graph=0
num_hops_per_subgraph=[]
do_performance_metrics
do_clustering_metrics
do_pathway_metrics
performance_metrics (premade dictionary)
y_clusters = {}
y_cluster_enrichment = {}
out=args['figure_dir']=figures/experiment/metrics
```
Here data is just prepared, depending if subgraphs are used.

Might be noteworthy: it uses pattern.match, and pattern match only checks first few chars. This should be matched with the h5ad files in /out so rename vis_name_pattern

then `_metrics` is called.
Here it runs do_performance_metrics and do_clustering_metrics.
It saves in out/avg_metrics_experiment.csv

**What the evaluation arguments produce**
According to my `i2cevaluation` script
* line 34 visualize_expression on each fold
	* UMAP
	* Heatmap
	* Gene plots
	* `_all.h5ad` files
	* `vis_name.h5ad` files
	Only when significant spearman
	* etc
	And this is what I get, so this works
* visualize_model_run
	This works
* line 49, performs metrics and clustering on each fold
* line 58
	* Merges predictions
	* Embeds test data
	* Creates mean .h5ad files ending as `_mean`
* line 66
	* Does metrics on the mean:
		* performance
		* clustering
* line 75
	* Does visualize expression on mean

Stuff to add:
* pathway metrics
* clustering metrics

****
Questions:
* Polish and TriNord for testing
	* These move to test
* What should i write the data came from
* TMA? What type of images is it?
	* FPPE TMA

<u>Meeting</u>

* DAPI
* Validate on CTA
* Test on WTA (some for validation)
WTA is the one consisting of whole transcriptome. 

CTA 1800 selected for relevancy for cancer
Measured with 5 probes per gene
WTA one probe per gene
Means that CTA measuemrent more robust

Predict on CTA and WTA and see how robust transfer from probe dependancy (?)

Train on CTa check performance
Train on WTa check on WTA
Check on WTA on CTA subset
Compare how well CTA performs

FFPE how you treat, TMA microarray way of arranging, good aswell because its standard way of storing samples

no survival analysis

Ideas for deepcell:
* Try rescaling after the patch generator
* Move the 75 channel stacking into the embed function (to prevent storage of large npy files)

avg file, pathway metrics
do_pathway_metrics

once have all metrics, run utils metrics to latex table.py. 

map_dir2name
directory named to model name/experiment name, for example kronos
datasetname/experiment name

map_model2name
convert directory to table names
