Will have access to WTA data
How this data will be used:

* Train on CTA, check performance (already done)
* Train on WTA
	* Check on WTA
	* Check on CTA
	* Check on CTA subset of WTA
* Train on CTA
	* Check on WTA
	* Check on CTA subset of WTA

I'm extracting circular ROIs now. When I get access to the count data, I will create the label data, for both subset and full. According to Markus, there is no difference between the labels of unsegmented vs segmented, so all circular ROIs should work. I can start segmenting cells then after extracting the ROIs.

Note to also rewrite reproduce scripts to add `experiment` parameter, depending on to use CTA or WTA data
Note to also perhaps rewrite get_labels for readability and debugging, and to implement the option to have translation dictionaries. For example, in the WTA data, Full ROI as a SegmentLabel can be used for unsegmented labels.

I've rewritten get_labels into a class instead, it is much more readable now. I've also exported the label data now.

I've rewritten the reproduce scripts to take different label.csv files now, and to look into WTA or CTA data

QUESTION:
* Are polygon ROIs also okay to use then? Have to check with count data
* What train split for WTA?

****

I've started some more runs as mentioned on last entry day, when deepcell is finished, run kronos

My results are contradictory from the i2c manuscript:

"The clearest difference in performance between FFW and GAT was observed for the CosMx dataset, indicating that spatial context might be more relevant for high-plex transcriptomic data."
"Merged GAT Image2Count outperformed other models based on MI, Spearman and Pearson correlation, however merged FFW Image2Count performed better based on MSE, and merged ResNet based on Cosine Similarity."

I saw that for KRONOS FFW was more beneficial. Performance got better from 1 to 2 linear layers, but tanked with more and more GAT layers (but didn't test with only one GAT layer) MSE got lower only marginally with more GAT layers and was stable no matter the amount of linear layers or GAT layers, however spearman was tanking alot.

Deepcell better with just a linear layer for spearman, but more layers better MSE. Spearman got severely reduced with more linear layers and GAT layers, but MSE got alot better with more linear layers, and marginally better with more GAT layers. (haven't tested with a single GAT layer)

Deepcell already takes neighbors into account, while KRONOS doesn't, so if the results would reflect manuscript, KRONOS would benefit from a GAT layer.

The previous mentioned tests that are running now are testing only 1 GAT layer this time, to see if 2 layers was too much.

It cannot be deduced if KRONOS predicts as it does on why it is potentially beneficial without GAT as it was trained with teacher-student strategy.

Deepcell has a linear layer downstream after image encoder of size (n_filters, n_filters), n_filters=256, 
Deepcell was trained with train vs true procedure, to predict proper cell type classifications, so this layer was included downstream after image encoding, normalized, and transformed to logits, and softmax for predicted classes. My conclusion is that the linear layer was used for downstream prediction.

My hypothesis is that this is why the LIN configuration gave the best results.

****

```

```