I'm going to use these CSVs
* Full CTA 
* Full WTA
* WTA subset of CTA
* CTA subset of above
```
Full CTA:               1812
Full WTA:               18677
CTA subset:             1773
WTA subset:             1773
Filt filt CTA subset:   227
Filt filt WTA subset:   227
```

CTA
* Train on CTA subset, predict on WTA subset
* Train on CTA filt, predict on CTA filt
* Train on CTA filt subset, predict on WTA filt subset

WTA
* Train on WTA, predict on WTA
* Train on WTA filt, predict on WTA filt
* Train on WTA subset, predict on CTA subset
* Train on WTA filt subset, predict on CTA filt subset

```
2273948  wta_filt_wta_filt
2273949  wta_wta
2273950  cta_filt_cta_filt
2273951  cta_sub_wta_sub
```

Okay, what else is there to do...

I can work on EVA
Write the report

```
FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: '/out/wta_filt/wta_filt/l2h4/0/'
```

Have to rerun eval on
* wta_filt_wta_filt

****
Evaluating methods for predicting spatial transcriptomics introduces additional challenges due to strong spatial dependencies and concerns regarding reproducibility across tissues. Pearson correlation coefficient and MSE remain the standard quantitative metrics for assessing predictive performance, but they may not capture the interplay between spatial context and gene-level variability. In a benchmark of methods for spatial transcriptomics prediction, Wang et al. [[40](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12971000/#ref40)] discuss how aggregated correlation metrics may dilute biologically relevant signal, suggesting emphasis on spatially variable genes (SVGs) and highly variable genes (HVGs). From this perspective, visualization of predicted spatial gene expression using tissue-level heatmaps can be useful to highlight patterns of predictive performance, though such visualizations are inherently limited to individual genes. Because expression levels vary considerably across tissues, spatial concordance metrics could complement gene-level error metrics by focusing on agreement of spatial organization.

Although the accessibility of large-scale datasets and recent advances in deep learning have made image-based omics prediction increasingly feasible, several open challenges remain. Variation in pre-processing pipelines, the heterogeneity of these large-scale cohorts, and inconsistent evaluation practices have hindered the development of standardized benchmarking procedures. In addition, the transferability and generalizability of models across imaging modalities, omics data types, and disease contexts remain largely unexplored. For example, comparing top-performing bulk RNA-seq prediction methods with wsi2rppa [[78](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12971000/#ref78)]—one of the only frameworks available for image-based prediction of protein expression levels—would provide valuable insight into cross-omics generalization.