Hype day

So the plan from yesterday works, using nested generators, but there is another problem

The processing itself takes a long time, so i want this to be run in parallel, but the ROIs require global properties, which is computed in parallel. So I can't make the ROIs processed in parallel because the process for each ROI also requires to be run in parallel.

I'm gonna make two sequential parallel processes, one where global properties is generated for all image names and stored, then another parallel process that processes each ROI.

In cell_seg:
* Make a parallel process to generate global properties
* Make a parallel process for the whole sample generator to process to patch generator to save cell.npy

* Each process will take an ROI
* Each process will call cell_seg
* In cell_seg it will load the ROI, mask and extract relevant positions
* It will then preprocess everything
* It will then call the patch generator

The preprocessor now works with parallel processing. I will now start preprocessing for real, but i need to find out the channel names...

```
0: Cyto13
1: CD3
2: CD20
3: CD8
```

Cyto13 channel couldn't be found. I will just mask it for now

I ran into some problems with skipped cells. I initialized the cells.npy as empty with size of total cells in an ROI, but some cells were skipped because they were so small, which led to there being some null values in the structure, which led to crashes when forming embeddings. I used scipy which had a function to calculate closest target from anywhere in an image, so i could force the algorithm to look at the closest detection. This should be fine, as long as detections aren't super duper small and disappear when rescaling, otherwise i will get duplicates of cells.